Droll Glossy Caribou

medium

# `AvailBridge._checkDataRoot()` is susceptible to preimage attacks on merkle trees.

## Summary
The use of two 32 bytes user-controlled inputs (`input.blobRoot` and `input.bridgeRoot`) in `AvailBridge._checkDataRoot()` makes it susceptible to the second preimage attack. As a result, it is possible to use a combination of the internal nodes of the data commitment tree as inputs, making the non-leaf values to be incorrectly verified as valid leaves.

## Vulnerability Detail
Examining the code snippet from `AvailBridge._checkDataRoot()` below, it utilizes `abi.encode` on `input.blobRoot` and `input.bridgeRoot`, followed by hashing and passing the result as a leaf for verification.


```solidity
function _checkDataRoot(MerkleProofInput calldata input) private view {
    bytes32 dataRootCommitment = vectorx.dataRootCommitments(input.rangeHash);
    if (dataRootCommitment == 0x0) {
        revert DataRootCommitmentEmpty();
    }
    // we construct the data root here internally, it is not possible to create an invalid data root that is
    // also part of the commitment tree
    if (
        !input.dataRootProof.verify(
            dataRootCommitment, input.dataRootIndex, keccak256(abi.encode(input.blobRoot, input.bridgeRoot))
        )
    ) {
        revert InvalidDataRootProof();
    }
}
```

The second preimage attack on merkle trees is a well know issue when valid leaf values are 64 bytes. This enables attackers to use the concatenated hashes of two internal nodes of the merkle tree (32 bytes each) and pass this value to the merkle tree validation, leading to it being accepted as a valid leaf. Note this issue only arises when the leaf values are 64 bytes long before being hashed.

Since both `input.blobRoot` and `input.bridgeRoot` are user-controlled 32-byte values, the caller can exploit this by using two internal nodes from the commitment tree as inputs, resulting in successful verification. This allows for the sucessfull validation of `input.bridgeRoot` and `input.blobRoot` which are not present in the `dataRootCommitment` leaves.

## Impact
`blobRoot` and `bridgeRoot` not present in the data commitment leaves can be validaded correctly. Enabling the non-valid `bridgeRoot` to be used `AvailBridge._checkBridgeLeaf()`.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L482-L496

## Tool used
Manual Review.

## Recommendation
Consider hashing the leaf twice, making it impossible for its collision with internal nodes of the merkle tree.
