Electric Gingham Gecko

high

# AvailBridge::sendMessage() does not return the excess ether send by the user, user will loose ether

## Summary
SendMessage() is a payable function that receives ether to cover the fee for transferring bytes from Ethereum to Avail blockchain.
Any excess ether received should be refunded back to the caller, but instead it is being absorbed as fee for the protocol.

## Vulnerability Detail
SendMessage() receives Ether to cover the fee transferring bytes. In the function, there is a validation to ensure that ether sent is covering the fee required to transfer the bytes.

```solidity
       // ensure that fee is above minimum amount
        if (msg.value < getFee(length)) {
            revert FeeTooLow();
        }
```

lets say, the getFee() was 0.000015 ether based on the configured fee rate by byte. If the user sent 0.0001 ether for the transaction to cover the fee, incase of any excess ether, the same should be returned back to the caller. But, in this function all the received ether is accounted as fee.

To illustrate the negative impact for the user, lets say, the user sent 0.0001 ether for the transaction,while the fee applicable is 0.000015.

Refund back should be =  0.0001 - 0.000015

Any excess ether received after processing the transaction should be returned back to the user.  This is currently not happening in the function.

## Impact
User will lose ether

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L300-L321

Refer to below lines of code.

```solidity
  // ensure that fee is above minimum amount
        if (msg.value < getFee(length)) {
            revert FeeTooLow();
        }
```
and below where the whole value is accounted as fee.
```solidity
 fees += msg.value;
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Refund the excess ether back to the user.
