Magic Cobalt Raccoon

medium

# `AvailBridge::sendMessage()` Sending messages of still VALID length `data.length == MAX_DATA_LENGTH` will trigger tx revert, effectively DoS-ing the passing of arbitrary data from Ethereum to Avail

## Summary

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L300

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L302
`AvailBridge::sendMessage()` Sending messages of still VALID length `data.length == MAX_DATA_LENGTH` will trigger tx revert, effectively DoS-ing the passing of arbitrary data from Ethereum to Avail

The bug is related to the condition in the `sendMessage()` function, where the length of the input data is checked against `MAX_DATA_LENGTH`. The current condition checks if the length is greater than or equal to `MAX_DATA_LENGTH`, and my argument is that it should be strictly greater `>`, in line with the naming of the constant and the custom error message.

## Vulnerability Detail

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L38

It's clear from the existing protocol tests that they treat the value for constant `MAX_DATA_LENGTH` as an invalid length, which unfortunately is an incorrect assumption to make, unless the naming of `MAX_DATA_LENGTH` is changed to e.g. `INVALID_DATA_LENGTH`, which might be acceptable only IF `102,400` was an actual invalid length in terms of how the EVM operates, which is not the case. I assume that the protocol's business logic actually allows for max valid length of `102,400` without any issues, but failed to implement the logic correctly.

Here they are testing for exactly this constant value, treating it as an invalid value, in contrast to the clear implied meaning of the naming of both the constant and the custom error:
Parameter `bytes32[3200] calldata c_data` means that total size of the encoded data would be `32 * 3200`, which equals `102,400`:
```solidity
    function testRevertExceedsMaxDataLength_sendMessage(bytes32 to, bytes32[3200] calldata c_data, uint256 amount)
        external
    {
        bytes memory data = abi.encode(c_data);
        address from = makeAddr("from");
        vm.prank(from);
        vm.deal(from, amount);
        vm.expectRevert(IAvailBridge.ExceedsMaxDataLength.selector);
        bridge.sendMessage{value: amount}(to, data);
        assertEq(bridge.isSent(0), 0x0);
        assertEq(bridge.fees(), 0);
    }
```
Here they are testing for a successful message transfer, ensuring the max data length is BELOW the constant value:
See line: `vm.assume(data.length < 102_400 && amount >= bridge.getFee(data.length));`:
```solidity
    function test_sendMessage(bytes32 to, bytes calldata data, uint32 feePerByte, uint256 amount) external {
        vm.prank(owner);
        bridge.updateFeePerByte(feePerByte);
        vm.assume(data.length < 102_400 && amount >= bridge.getFee(data.length));
        address from = makeAddr("from");
        IAvailBridge.Message memory message = IAvailBridge.Message(0x01, bytes32(bytes20(from)), to, 2, 1, data, 0);
        vm.prank(from);
        vm.deal(from, amount);
        bridge.sendMessage{value: amount}(to, data);
        assertEq(bridge.isSent(0), keccak256(abi.encode(message)));
        assertEq(bridge.fees(), amount);
    }
```

I could have fixed the bug and ran these same tests, but slightly modified to cater for the bugfix, and then included the results, but the above explanations and logic should suffice, as it should be clear enough.

## Impact

- The only reason this bug is medium severity(please change to high if appropriate) is because the protocol team could potentially turn around and say oh well we can just change the name of the `MAX_DATA_LENGTH` constant and magic, bug fixed. However, what would make such a move actually invalid would be if the `102,400` value is in fact an acceptable valid upper limit for the data length in terms of protocol business logic and other potential EVM/protocol constraints, which I confidently assume is the case. 
In other words, it should be clear that this is definitely a bug, and fixing it isn't as simple as changing the name but to fix the actual implementation logic. 

- Denial of Service (DoS) / Disruption of Arbitrary Data Transfer: 
  -- The bug allows messages with a VALID length equal to `MAX_DATA_LENGTH` to trigger a transaction revert.
  -- Since the `sendMessage()` function is intended for passing arbitrary data from Ethereum to Avail, the bug disrupts this functionality by preventing ALL messages with the `maximum allowed length` from being processed.

- Loss of Trust and Reputation:
  -- Users and other stakeholders may lose trust in the AvailBridge protocol if they observe disruptions and unreliability due to the bug.

## Code Snippet

```solidity
    /**
     * @notice  Emits a corresponding arbitrary messag event on Avail
     * @dev     This function is used for passing arbitrary data from Ethereum to Avail
     * @param   recipient  Recipient of the message on Avail
     * @param   data  Data to send
     */
    function sendMessage(bytes32 recipient, bytes calldata data) external payable whenNotPaused {
        uint256 length = data.length;
        if (length >= MAX_DATA_LENGTH) { /// @audit-issue should be `>`, in line with the naming of the `MAX_DATA_LENGTH` constant as well as the naming of the custom error message
            revert ExceedsMaxDataLength();
        }
        // ensure that fee is above minimum amount
        if (msg.value < getFee(length)) {
            revert FeeTooLow();
        }
        uint256 id;
        unchecked {
            id = messageId++;
        }
        fees += msg.value;
        Message memory message = Message(
            MESSAGE_TX_PREFIX, bytes32(bytes20(msg.sender)), recipient, ETH_DOMAIN, AVAIL_DOMAIN, data, uint64(id)
        );
        // store message hash to be retrieved later by our light client
        isSent[id] = keccak256(abi.encode(message));

        emit MessageSent(msg.sender, recipient, id);
    }
```

## Tool used
VSC.
Manual Review

## Recommendation

- EVM Word Size and Efficiency: The choice of the max acceptable data length may also be influenced by considerations such as EVM word size and gas efficiency. Simply changing the constant's name without addressing the implemented logic may not align with these underlying technical considerations.

To fix the bug, you should update the condition in the `sendMessage()` function to use the strict greater-than `>` operator instead of greater-than-or-equal-to `>=`. 

This change aligns with the naming of the constant(and custom error) and intention of the protocol for allowing all message lengths less OR equal to the max data length, i.e. `<= MAX_DATA_LENGTH`.

```diff
-	if (length >= MAX_DATA_LENGTH) {
+	if (length > MAX_DATA_LENGTH) {
    	revert ExceedsMaxDataLength();
	}

```
