Virtual Wool Ant

medium

# Data root validation is vulnerable to the second preimage attack

## Summary

The Merkle tree used to validate the inclusion in the data root uses 64-byte leaves, making it vulnerable to an attack known as the second preimage attack, in which internal nodes of the tree can be used as leaves.

## Vulnerability Detail

During message verification, the `blobRoot` and `bridgeRoot` are first verified to be included in the data root tree.

```solidity
function _checkDataRoot(MerkleProofInput calldata input) private view {
    bytes32 dataRootCommitment = vectorx.dataRootCommitments(input.rangeHash);
    if (dataRootCommitment == 0x0) {
        revert DataRootCommitmentEmpty();
    }
    // we construct the data root here internally, it is not possible to create an invalid data root that is
    // also part of the commitment tree
    if (
        !input.dataRootProof.verify(
            dataRootCommitment, input.dataRootIndex, keccak256(abi.encode(input.blobRoot, input.bridgeRoot))
        )
    ) {
        revert InvalidDataRootProof();
    }
}
```

These two variables are concatenated and used as leaves in this Merkle tree. Both `blobRoot` and `bridgeRoot` are `bytes32`, thus making leaves (`abi.encode(input.blobRoot, input.bridgeRoot)`) 64 bytes long.

Merkle trees that use 64-byte leaves are vulnerable to the [second preimage attack](https://www.rareskills.io/post/merkle-tree-second-preimage-attack). Since internal nodes are 32 byte long (as these are the output of a keccak hash), then these can be combined to prove the presence of certain values that aren’t actually leaves in the tree.

## Impact

The attack allows to prove the inclusion of internal nodes as leaves in the data root tree, which essentially means that an attacker can use non-valid `bridgeRoot` values, which are critical during message validation, as this is the root of the Merkle tree that is used to prove the inclusion and validation of messages (the `Message` struct).

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L491

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Potential solutions are:

- Use a different hash function for leaves, for example double hash leaves: `keccak256(abi.encode(keccak256(abi.encode(input.blobRoot, input.bridgeRoot))))`
- Use a different length for leaves. During tree construction, prepend a certain constant value that could be used to discern leaves.
