Daring Ginger Piranha

high

# MERKLE LEAVES HAVE THE SAME LENGTH OF 64BYTES AS THE PARENT NODES IN THE `AvailBridge._checkDataRoot` FUNCTION THUS VALIDATING FRAUDULENT MERKLE PROOF

## Summary

Merkle leaves have the same 64 bytes length before hashing as the parent node length before hashing thus leading to hash collision. Hence invalid proofs can be presented to validate invalide `leaf` data in the `AvailBridge._checkDataRoot` function, thus letting an attacker execute fraudulent message and asset transfer transactions.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `AvailBridge._checkDataRoot` function is used for verifying a Merkle proof of inclusion for a data root. The verification happens by calling the `verify` function of the `Merkle.sol` library as shown below:

        if (
            !input.dataRootProof.verify( //@audit-info - proof of inclusion for the data root
                dataRootCommitment, input.dataRootIndex, keccak256(abi.encode(input.blobRoot, input.bridgeRoot)) //@audit-issue - 64 bytes length before hashing
            ) //@audit-info - dataRootCommitment -> root of the data root merkle tree, dataRootIndex -> index of hte speifici data root, abi.encode(input.blobRoot, input.bridgeRoot) -> leaf of the data root merkle tree
        ) {
            revert InvalidDataRootProof(); //@audit-info - if the verification is false then revert
        }

The `leaf value` passed to the `verify` function is calculated as `keccak256(abi.encode(input.blobRoot, input.bridgeRoot)`. Both the `input.blobRoot` and `input.bridgeRoot` are bytes32 values thus making the prehashed length of the data `bytes64` long.

## Impact

As a result the `size of a leaf` is the same size of the `parent data that is hashed`, both are 64 bytes. As a result it is possible to have a hash collision between a leaf and any node in the tree. This allows for proofs to be repeated multiple times by taking subtrees as leaves.

abi.encode(bytes32,bytes32) (leaf) will output 64 bytes. And abi.encode(bytes32,bytes32) (node) will also be 64 bytes. Hence it is possible to have a hash collision between a leaf and a parent node.

As a result Fraudulent proofs can be submitted by an attacker to validate invalid `input.blobRoot` and `input.bridgeRoot`. Hence fraudulent transactions can be executed on the `AvailBridge` contract as a result.

## Code Snippet

```solidity
    function _checkDataRoot(MerkleProofInput calldata input) private view {
        bytes32 dataRootCommitment = vectorx.dataRootCommitments(input.rangeHash);
        if (dataRootCommitment == 0x0) {
            revert DataRootCommitmentEmpty();
        }
        // we construct the data root here internally, it is not possible to create an invalid data root that is
        // also part of the commitment tree
        if (
            !input.dataRootProof.verify(
                dataRootCommitment, input.dataRootIndex, keccak256(abi.encode(input.blobRoot, input.bridgeRoot))
            )
        ) {
            revert InvalidDataRootProof();
        }
    }
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L482-L496

## Tool used
VSCode and Manual Review

## Recommendation

Hence it is recommended to change the `abi.encode(input.blobRoot, input.bridgeRoot` leaf value calculation in the `AvailBridge._checkDataRoot` function such that the resulting encoded value length is `!=64bytes` length. This can be done by adding an addition data field in the merkle tree leaves before being hashed.
