Electric Gingham Gecko

medium

# AvailBridge::receiveETH() could result in loss of Ether due to lack of zero address check

## Summary
receiveETH() could result in sending ether to zero address or invalid address. The risk here is that low level calls will return success as true for zero address and hence the ether will be lost.

This leaves vulnerability for manipulation or error leading to loss of tokens.

As a bridge, every protection to prevent manipulation should be implemented. 

## Vulnerability Detail
The call function will return true even when the dest address is zero address. This will result in loss of tokens.
   (bool success,) = dest.call{value: value}("");

## Impact
Tokens will be lost.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L239-L263

The below implementation could result in loss of tokens.
```solidity
       address dest = address(bytes20(message.to));

        emit MessageReceived(message.from, dest, message.messageId);

        // slither-disable-next-line arbitrary-send-eth,missing-zero-check,low-level-calls
        (bool success,) = dest.call{value: value}("");
        if (!success) {
            revert UnlockFailed();
        }
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Add zero address validation for dest address.

https://www.immunebytes.com/blog/lack-of-zero-address-validation-a-peril-to-solidity-smart-contracts/

**Safeguarding User Funds**: In a decentralized space, users rely on the security and integrity of smart contracts to interact with their funds. If zero-address validation is not performed, users’ funds could be at risk of being sent to the zero address, effectively rendering them irretrievable. With zero address check transactions are destined to happen only between the concerned parties. Furthermore, in Solidity, the address zero is used as a placeholder for some types of data where address zero might help you in confirming that your contract is handling uninitialized data correctly.
