Lucky Myrtle Poodle

medium

# Missing address(0) Check in AvailBridge::updateVectorx Function

## Summary

The `updateVectorx` function in the `AvailBridge.sol` contract lacks a crucial address(0) check, posing a potential security risk. This oversight allows an administrator to inadvertently set `vectorx` to address(0), potentially leading to unexpected and undesirable consequences.

## Vulnerability Detail

The vulnerability lies in the absence of a validation check for address(0) when updating the `vectorx` variable. This allows an authorized administrator to make the unintentional assignment of `vectorx` to address(0), compromising the integrity of the contract.

## Impact

The impact of this vulnerability could result in unexpected behavior within the contract, affecting its intended functionality. It introduces the risk of unintended consequences, potentially undermining the reliability of the contract's operations.

reference is: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L122-L124

## Code Snippet

```solidity
// @audit missing address(0) check
function updateVectorx(IVectorx newVectorx) external onlyRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE) {
    vectorx = newVectorx;
}
```
## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
It is strongly recommended to enhance the `updateVectorx` function by incorporating a check for address(0) before allowing any updates to the `vectorx` variable. This preventive measure ensures that critical variables are not unintentionally set to address(0), mitigating the risk of unexpected behavior and maintaining the robustness of the contract.

## code snippet
```solidity
function updateVectorx(IVectorx newVectorx) external onlyRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE) {
    require(newVectorx != address(0));
    vectorx = newVectorx;
}
```

