Lucky Myrtle Poodle

medium

# Missing Check for Zero Fees in AvailBridge::withdrawFees Function

## Summary

The `withdrawFees` function in the contract lacks a check to revert when attempting to withdraw fees that are already set to zero. This absence of a check could lead to unintended behavior and potential financial discrepancies.

## Vulnerability Detail

The vulnerability arises from the oversight in the `withdrawFees` function, where fees are withdrawn without verifying whether they are non-zero. Without this check, the contract may proceed with fee withdrawal even when fees have been previously set to zero.
reference: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L171-L179 

## Impact

The impact of this vulnerability includes the potential for unnecessary gas costs, financial inconsistencies, and deviation from the intended behavior of the contract. It may also pose a risk of unexpected behavior in scenarios where fees are expected to be accumulated and withdrawn.

## Code Snippet
```solidity
  function withdrawFees() external {
        uint256 fee = fees;
        delete fees;
        // slither-disable-next-line low-level-calls
        (bool success,) = feeRecipient.call{value: fee}("");
        if (!success) {
            revert WithdrawFailed();
        }
    }
```

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
I strongly recommend to modify the `withdrawFees` function by incorporating a check to revert when attempting to withdraw fees that are already set to zero. This proactive measure ensures that fee withdrawals align with the intended logic of the contract, mitigating the risk of unnecessary gas costs and financial discrepancies. You can implement the modification like this: 

```solidity
error FeesAlreadyWithdrawn();

function withdrawFees() external {
    uint256 fee = fees;

    if (fee == 0) {
        revert FeesAlreadyWithdrawn();
    }

    delete fees;

    // slither-disable-next-line low-level-calls
    (bool success,) = feeRecipient.call{value: fee}("");
    if (!success) {
        revert WithdrawFailed();
    }
}
```