Cuddly Violet Badger

medium

# ```AvailBridge::updateFeeRecipient()``` possible lost of funds (fees) for missing Zero Address Check in

## Summary
The ```AvailBridge::updateFeeRecipient()``` function lacks a check to prevent the fee recipient from being set to the zero address. This could lead to a situation where fees are sent to an address from which they cannot be recovered.

## Vulnerability Detail
The ```AvailBridge::updateFeeRecipient()``` function is designed to update the address to which transaction fees are sent. It is a critical function that can only be called by the governance multisig, indicated by the ```onlyRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE)``` modifier. However, the function does not currently validate that the ```newFeeRecipient``` parameter is not the zero address. If the zero address were to be set as the fee recipient, any fees transferred to it would be irretrievable, effectively burning the funds.

The function in question allows the governance multisig to update the address where transaction fees are sent. While the function is protected by the ```onlyRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE)``` modifier, ensuring that only authorized governance can invoke it, there is no safeguard against setting the newFeeRecipient to the zero address. The governance multisig's composition, including the number of signers and their identities, is not transparently known. Additionally, the signers and required number of signatures can be altered over time, which introduces uncertainty and potential security risks. Relying solely on the governance multisig to avoid setting the zero address, without an explicit check in the smart contract code, is hazardous.

## Impact
If the fee recipient is set to the zero address, all future fees collected by the contract would be permanently lost. This could have a significant financial impact, especially if the volume of transactions and associated fees is high. The severity of the vulnerability is somewhat mitigated by the fact that only the governance multisig can call the function, reducing the likelihood of accidental misuse. However this risk is exacerbated by the lack of clarity and potential mutability regarding the governance multisig's composition and signatory requirements. The potential impact on the contract's operation and user trust is substantial enough to warrant a medium severity classification. It is recommended to implement a fix to prevent the possibility of such an error.

Implementing a code-level check to prevent the zero address from being set as the fee recipient is a safeguard that would mitigate this risk, regardless of changes in governance or operational errors by the multisig signers.

## Code Snippet
Link to the code snippet: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L162C5-L165C6
```solidity
function updateFeeRecipient(address newFeeRecipient) external onlyRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE) {
@>        feeRecipient = newFeeRecipient;
    }
```
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Add a zero address check into the code.
```diff
function updateFeeRecipient(address newFeeRecipient) external onlyRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE) {
+    require(newFeeRecipient != address(0), "Fee recipient cannot be the zero address");
    feeRecipient = newFeeRecipient;
}
```


