Stable Rusty Tarantula

medium

# Lack of __gap Variable


## Summary
For upgradeable contracts, there must be storage gap to "allow developers to freely add new state variables in the future without compromising the storage compatibility with existing deployments" (quote from OpenZeppelin). Otherwise it may be very difficult to write new implementation code. Without storage gap, the variable in child contract might be overwritten by the upgraded base contract if new variables are added to the base contract. This could have unintended and very serious consequences to the child contracts.

## Vulnerability Detail

The  AvailBridge contract is intended to be upgradeable contracts in the code base.However, this contract doesnt contain any  storage gap. The storage gap is essential for upgradeable contract because "It allows us to freely add new state variables in the future without compromising the storage compatibility with existing deployments". Refer to the bottom part of this [article](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/3.x/upgradeable)


## Impact
The absence of storage gaps in upgradeable contracts can result in storage collisions, presenting potential risks to the contract's functionality.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-avail/blob/main/contracts/src/AvailBridge.sol#L24-L30

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Recommend adding appropriate storage gap at the end of upgradeable contracts such as the below. Please reference OpenZeppelin upgradeable contract templates.
```solidity
uint256[50] private __gap;
```